Add GKE docs section (#2335)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/ingest-management/elastic-agent/running-on-kubernetes-gke-standard-managed-by-fleet.asciidoc

[[running-on-kubernetes-gke-standard-managed-by-fleet]]

> = Run {agent} on GKE standard managed by {fleet}

Reviewer: should this documentation be more an `Observe GKE standard with elastic-agent managed by fleet`, then the run fleet?

Reviewer 2: So also the title should not have kubenretes word. I think is duplication
[running-on-kubernetes-gke-standard-managed-by-fleet.asciidoc] -> [running-on-gke-standard-managed-by-fleet.asciidoc]

Reviewer 3: I like the idea of making the titles more user goal oriented. I wonder what users are likely to search for when they go to google or our docs?

Use {agent} https://www.docker.elastic.co/r/beats/elastic-agent[Docker images] on Kubernetes to
retrieve cluster metrics.

TIP: Running {ecloud} on Kubernetes? Refer to {eck-ref}/k8s-elastic-agent-fleet.html[Run {elastic-agent} on ECK].

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

However, version {version} of {agent} has not yet been
released, so no Docker image is currently available for this version.

endif::[]

[discrete]
== Prerequisites

> All data_streams with the `state_` prefix require `hosts` field pointing to `kube-state-metrics`

Reviewer: I think that at this point of the documentation it might be not yet clear about which data_streams is it going, and what is a `hosts`.
maybe it could be better to just say what is required and keep rest as an clarification, smth like:
```
- `kube-state-metrics` is running and accessible within the cluster.

`kube-state-metrics` is not deployed by default in Kubernetes GKE. In order to install `kube-state-metrics` follow
the instructions for its deployment https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics#kubernetes-deployment[here].
```

> All data_streams with the `state_` prefix require `hosts` field pointing to `kube-state-metrics`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kube-state-metrics is not deployed by default in Kubernetes GKE!

Data_streams with the `state_` prefix require ` `kube-state-metrics` library to be present

. In order to install kube-state-metrics follow
the instructions for its deployment are available https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics#kubernetes-deployment[here].
Generally `kube-state-metrics` runs a `Deployment` and is accessible via a service called `kube-state-metrics` on
`kube-system` namespace, which will be the service to use in our configuration of agent
```

service within the cluster.

Kube-state-metrics is not deployed by default in Kubernetes GKE. In order to install kube-state-metrics follow

> the instructions for its deployment are available https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics#kubernetes-deployment[here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the instructions for its deployment https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics#kubernetes-deployment[here].
```

> In this regard, the respective dashboards will not be populated with data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this regard, the respective **dashboards** will not be populated with data.
```

> `kube-system` namespace, which will be the service to use in our configuration.

Reviewer 2: [configuration]
Maybe we can point to line of manifest where kube-state metrics service is ?

> 2. Audit logs are available only on Kubernetes master nodes as well, hence cannot be collected by {agent}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Audit logs** are available only on Kubernetes master nodes as well, hence cannot be collected by {agent}.
```

[discrete]

> == Kubernetes deploy manifests

Reviewer 2: I think all this section can be removed and go to elastic-agent doc. So to keep it common for all 

In here I would like something like list of steps until someone can have GKE monitored with our solution

1. Login to GKE and and retrieve credentials for specific GKE cluster 
<gcloud .....> example command
2. Verify your cluster locally by running kubectl command 
3. Login to kibana and go to specific menu and 
3a. Install Integration
3b Create Agent Policy
3c Bind Policy to Agent
4. Apply  manifest to your cluster
5. Verify that your agent is running --> Can we show logs of the agent pod?
6. Verify that your policy is applied  --> Any indication there? Probably from UI
7. Verify logs/ metrics in your kibana discovery 
7a. Explain where logs come from and where metrics come from and should be under which data-view

Author: This steps are already part of the original "Run Agent on k8s" documentation page. Is this what you mean by "elastic-agent doc"?

To my mind I wouldn't remove the steps and redirect to another basic page since here we need a page that would be just enough for the GKE users without the need to jump to other pages and combine information. With this the experience is more simple and robust -> "I want to run Agent on GKE I follow the whole page and that works".

Also I don't like to have different verification steps for GKE compared to basic k8s.
Let me know what you think.

Reviewer 2: Makes sense. Then lets update cetral main page

[discrete]
== Prerequisites

Kube-state-metrics is not deployed by default in Kubernetes GKE!

Data_streams with the `state_` prefix require `kube-state-metrics` to be present.

In order to install kube-state-metrics follow the instructions for its deployment are available
https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics#kubernetes-deployment[here].
Generally `kube-state-metrics` runs a `Deployment` and is accessible via a service called `kube-state-metrics` on
`kube-system` namespace, which will be the service to use in our configuration of agent
service within the cluster.

[discrete]
== Kubernetes deploy manifests

With {fleet}, each agent enrolls in a policy defined in {kib} and stored in
{es}. The policy specifies how to collect observability data from the services
to be monitored. The {agent} connects to a trusted {fleet-server} instance
to retrieve the policy and report agent events.

We recommend using {fleet} management because it makes the management and

> upgrade of agents' integrations considerably easier.

Reviewer 2: >With {fleet}, each agent enrolls in a policy defined in {kib} and stored in
{es}. The policy specifies how to collect observability data from the services
to be monitored. The {agent} connects to a trusted {fleet-server} instance
to retrieve the policy and report agent events.
We recommend using {fleet} management because it makes the management and
upgrade of agents' integrations considerably easier.

I think all this part should go first to the section `Configure a Fleet Policy`

Reviewer 2: Also the rest section of `Kubernetes deploy manifests` should go and be merged with the `Deploy` section

What do you think?

Reviewer 2: Also last comment on this:
Installation Steps can be the [discrete] header here and under that to have:
1. Configure a Fleet policy
2. Enroll Elastic Agent to Fleet
3. Deploy kubernetes manifests

Those I dont think should be discrete and I would put them as sub headers with the numbers as well. To so that are steps in a sequence

the namespace, modify the manifest file.

To download the manifest file, run:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------

> curl -L -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/elastic-agent/{branch}/deploy/kubernetes/elastic-agent-managed-kubernetes.yaml

Reviewer: Maybe instead of adding this command and explaining Settings, we should mention to copy the manifest from the UI?

Author: Not sure about this. Are we planing to do the same for other providers too? And what about the basic "running on k8s" guide?

------------------------------------------------

[discrete]

> == Settings

Reviewer 2: This section can go on the steps above where we install agent.

Can you make a comment for FLEET_ENROLLMENT_TOKEN vs FLEET_ENROLLMENT_USERNAME/PASSWORD?

Author: Only `FLEET_URL` and `FLEET_ENROLLMENT_TOKEN` are required. I will remove the rest of them. FYI those are just copied from the original doc page so we need to revisit this one too :)

https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics[kube-state-metrics].

> Everything is deployed under the `kube-system` namespace by default. To change

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Default namespace of deployment is `kube-system` . To change
```

To learn how to get an enrollment token from {fleet}, see <<fleet-enrollment-tokens>>.

To specify different destination/credentials,
change the following parameters in the manifest file:

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------
- name: FLEET_URL
  value: "https://fleet-server_url:port"
- name: FLEET_ENROLLMENT_TOKEN
  value: "token"
- name: FLEET_SERVER_POLICY_ID
  value: "fleet-server-policy" <1>
- name: KIBANA_HOST
  value: ""
- name: KIBANA_FLEET_USERNAME
  value: ""
- name: KIBANA_FLEET_PASSWORD
  value: ""
------------------------------------------------
<1> To learn how to create a policy, refer <<create-a-policy-no-ui>>.

> 

Reviewer 3: You need to set the `type` attribute somewhere before these includes because the IDs use `type` as a variable to ensure uniqueness in case the setting is included in multiple places.

`:type: somevalue`

// Begin collapsed section
[%collapsible]
.Configuration details
====
****

[cols="2*<a"]
|===
| Settings | Description

include::configuration/env/shared-env.asciidoc[tag=fleet-url]

include::configuration/env/shared-env.asciidoc[tag=fleet-enrollment-token]

include::configuration/env/shared-env.asciidoc[tag=fleet-server-policy-id]

include::configuration/env/shared-env.asciidoc[tag=kibana-host]

include::configuration/env/shared-env.asciidoc[tag=kibana-fleet-username]

include::configuration/env/shared-env.asciidoc[tag=kibana-fleet-password]
|===

Refer to <<agent-environment-variables>> for all available options.

****
====

[discrete]
== Deploy

> If planning to deploy `state_*` datasets of Kubernetes package,

Reviewer: I think it can be removed as it was already mentioned. Maybe we should adjust origin doc page as well

elastic-agent-hrjbg   1/1     Running   0          12m
elastic-agent-olpsd   1/1     Running   0          12m
------------------------------------------------

NOTE: You might need to adjust https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/[resource limits] of the elastic-agent container
in the `elastic-agent-managed-kubernetes.yaml` manifest. Container resource usage depends on the number of data streams
and the environment size.

{agent}s should be enrolled to {fleet} and users should be able to deploy the Kubernetes package accordingly.
This can be confirmed in {kib} under {fleet}  / Agents section.

[discrete]
== Deploying {agent} to collect cluster-level metrics in large clusters

The size and the number of nodes in a Kubernetes cluster can be fairly large at times,
and in such cases the Pod that will be collecting cluster level metrics might face performance
issues due to resources limitations. In this case users might consider to avoid using the
leader election strategy and instead run a dedicated, standalone {agent} instance using
a Deployment in addition to the DaemonSet.

[discrete]
== Not available data

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we add here or to another section details for the orchestratot.cloud.name with add_field ?
Just an example oof the processor with one liner to explain what problem it solves

Also for autopilot: GKE autopilot installations do now allow agent installation. At the moment several changes are needed to the provided manifest in order to be installed. Do we plan to have another version of such manifest online?

Author: This PR is only for GKE standard. Autopilot will be covered separately once we have all the details figured out regarding the requirements etc.

> On managed Kubernetes solutions like GKE, {agent} has no access to collect metrics from the https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/components/#control-plane-components[Kubernetes control plane]

Reviewer 2: Make those bullets to be different to the eye

I am wondering if we should move this section first after Prerequisities

components, like `kube-scheduler` and `kube-controller-manager`, that are scheduled on Kubernetes master nodes.

> Audit logs are available only on Kubernetes master nodes as well and hence cannot be collected by {agent}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Audit logs are available only on Kubernetes master nodes as well, hence cannot be collected by {agent}.
```

[[running-on-kubernetes-gke-standard-managed-by-fleet]]
= Run {agent} on GKE standard managed by {fleet}

Use {agent} https://www.docker.elastic.co/r/beats/elastic-agent[Docker images] on Kubernetes to
retrieve cluster metrics.

TIP: Running {ecloud} on Kubernetes? Refer to {eck-ref}/k8s-elastic-agent-fleet.html[Run {elastic-agent} on ECK].

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

However, version {version} of {agent} has not yet been
released, so no Docker image is currently available for this version.

endif::[]

[discrete]
== Prerequisites

Kube-state-metrics is not deployed by default in Kubernetes GKE!

Data_streams with the `state_` prefix require ` `kube-state-metrics` library to be present

. In order to install kube-state-metrics follow
the instructions for its deployment are available https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics#kubernetes-deployment[here].
Generally `kube-state-metrics` runs a `Deployment` and is accessible via a service called `kube-state-metrics` on
`kube-system` namespace, which will be the service to use in our configuration of agent
service within the cluster.

> `Kube-state-metrics` is not deployed by default in Kubernetes GKE. In order to install `kube-state-metrics` follow

Reviewer: info is duplicated here, could you remove it?
